As I mentioned in the intro, I too am a Pluralsight student just like you.
And most probably like you,
some of my favorite courses include demo applications that I can
use to further my learning and development.
Good old Hello Worlds are nice for passing job interviews,
but I do get frustrated at how little I'm able to
truly take away and continue learning.
So as a result,
I've turned to the good folks at AWS labs for the most
complete demo application I could find.
If you haven't seen it,
this is the well‑known AWS Full‑Stack Template
application that when you're trying to learn AWS concepts
includes a little bit of everything,
including the CDK constructs necessary to build a code
pipeline instance to deploy it all.
The only downside is that this application,
which includes a whole mountain of CloudFormation JSON,
doesn't include any CDK distributions.
Fear not, thanks to Jon Comstock, a colleague of mine,
and a few long weeks of hard work,
we forked the repository and completely reverse engineered it into CDK.
By the time you take this course,
I'll have pull requested it back into the main AWS repository.
If for any reason my pull request isn't approved,
fingers crossed,
you'll always be able to get it from the course materials
repository that I'll go over in just a moment.
First and foremost, this template is completely serverless.
I'm sure you've likely had enough of Hello World VPC demos,
so we're going to keep things modern and server free for this course.
The API layer includes a set of Lambda functions intended to
provide CRUD operations for the system.
As you'd expect,
these Lambdas are accessed through an API gateway talking
to a Dynamo database in the back end.
On the front end,
we have a React application that uses the Amplify client library
using Cognito as an identity management service.
If you haven't used Cognito yet,
this will help you get accustomed to it as an auth provider,
all done through the CDK.
All in all,
this template includes a lot of opportunities to learn and
continue your learning long after this course.
You may very well come back to this when you write
CDK applications in the future.
For this course,
we'll pretend that this particular monolith is the slice of tech
stream that Josh and Ellen are focusing on.
Let me show you why I love teaching with this template.
Okay, sound guy, cue the 2001 Space Odyssey theme music.
So if you click the link that I had shown in the previous slide,
you end up on the AWS lab repository for the Full‑Stack Template.
And at first glance, if you take a look through here,
there's actually a lot of content in here.
If I skip past the folder structure for now,
you can see that there is an unbelievable set of
detail outlining the template itself, all the associated resources,
and everything you need to get going with this application.
There are also fairly detailed instructions on how to simply
just launch this through CloudFormation.
Obviously, we're concerned with CDK here,
so we're not going to launch this through CloudFormation for now.
And if I go a little bit further down,
you can see that this application does include the resources we talked about.
There's a Cognito identity management provider sitting on the front
end in which CloudFront is sitting behind it,
obviously, through authentication.
We have a static React website that's living in Amazon S3 buckets.
And then for the mid‑tier layer, obviously,
we have our serverless Lambda's communicating directly in the back end with our
Dynamo database with an API gateway sitting in front of it.
Obviously,
you can get a great view on the resource diagram as well to give you a great
understanding what this template has in it and how it works.
And if I scroll all the way back up to the top,
you can see that there's a workshop folder.
Not only can you learn this from a CloudFormation in just
a fundamental development perspective,
but there's actually a set of workshop snippets to go along with it as well,
so you can get a great understanding for how the template works as
you're learning the CDK in the same process.
So let me flip over and look at an instantiation of the application itself,
and you can see that yes, it is a little bit of a cliche goals application,
but it's a perfect application to learn CRUD operations with the
Full‑Stack Template that we have laid out in front of us.
I can go ahead and hit the Sign up link,
and then it takes an email and a password.
From there, Cognito handles everything at this point.
You'll actually get an email requiring you to enter a
code for multi‑factor authentication.
Now I've already done this once, so let me go ahead and hit Login.
And again, Cognito handled that authentication,
but suffice it to say, from here it's relatively vanilla.
You've got a table‑based view of goals that you can create and update,
in which case I've created a couple of goals.
Now, obviously from here, I can go update or delete goals,
and we obviously understand that these are hitting the Lambdas through the API
Gateway and storing these in our back‑end Dynamo database.
So this is a wonderful template to teach from.
It's very easy to set up and very easy to get running for yourself.
And combined with workshops and everything else,
it makes learning the CDK and the advanced principles as easy as they can be.
Here are the two locations for both the original AWS labs repository,
as well as the permanently forked repository that'll
always include the CDK distribution.
As I said, the Blndspt repo will always be there,
regardless of whether my pull request is approved or not.
And if that wasn't cool enough,
check out the evolution of this template that the AWS labs guys built
by way of the monster Bookstore Full‑Stack Template.
AWS labs guys have also pulled out all the stops and
created the AWS Bookstore Demo App.
Now these two templates are very similar, with this one adding in
a lot of extra resources and functionality.
So if I go ahead and skip the folder structure in the
repository and I go down to the resource view,
you can see that under the Backend section they've added in Elasticsearch
Service, an ElastiCache for Redis service, and a Neptune service.
And, as you'll see in the application,
these are for searching and a few other neat pieces
of functionality in this demo.
So if I go ahead and go over to the instantiated demo,
you'll see that it looks very similar to the goals application.
However, when I go ahead and log into this one,
you'll see right off the bat that there's a lot more included in here.
And to take advantage of the extra resources,
I can simply come to the Search box, and I can search for cupcakes,
and you can see that the cache service itself is actually providing the
information directly out of the stream from the Dynamo database.
Besides that, if I go ahead and go back to the main page and scroll down,
you can see that there is a friends bought section,
which uses a little bit of the AWS Neptune resource,
as well as some star ratings for each book.
And this does include a commerce component as well.
You can go ahead and add the book to the cart, and I can go
through the checkout process as well.
So this is one of my favorite demo templates because of all
the things that are included in it. You can always come back
to this one when you need it.
And although I won't be directly teaching out of this demo,
I will plan on reverse‑engineering the CloudFormation and pull requesting this back into the main repository as well.